User-controlled bypass of sensitive method
==========================================

::

    ID: java/user-controlled-bypass
    Kind: path-problem
    Severity: error
    Precision: medium
    Tags: security external/cwe/cwe-807 external/cwe/cwe-290

`Click to see the query in the CodeQL
repository <https://github.com/github/codeql/tree/main/java/ql/src/Security/CWE/CWE-807/ConditionalBypass.ql>`__

Many Java constructs enable code statements to be executed
conditionally, for example ``if`` statements and ``for`` statements. If
these statements contain important authentication or login code, and the
decision about whether to execute this code is based on user-controlled
data, it may be possible for an attacker to bypass security systems by
preventing this code from executing.

Recommendation
--------------

Never decide whether to authenticate a user based on data that may be
controlled by that user. If necessary, ensure that the data is validated
extensively when it is input before any authentication checks are
performed.

It is still possible to have a system that "remembers" users, thus not
requiring the user to login on every interaction. For example,
personalization settings can be applied without authentication because
this is not sensitive information. However, users should be allowed to
take sensitive actions only when they have been fully authenticated.

Example
-------

This example shows two ways of deciding whether to authenticate a user.
The first way shows a decision that is based on the value of a cookie.
Cookies can be easily controlled by the user, and so this allows a user
to become authenticated without providing valid credentials. The second,
more secure way shows a decision that is based on looking up the user in
a security database.

.. code:: java

    public boolean doLogin(String user, String password) {
        Cookie adminCookie = getCookies()[0];

        // BAD: login is executed only if the value of 'adminCookie' is 'false', 
        // but 'adminCookie' is controlled by the user
        if(adminCookie.getValue()=="false")
            return login(user, password);
        
        return true;
    }

    public boolean doLogin(String user, String password) {
        Cookie adminCookie = getCookies()[0];
        
        // GOOD: use server-side information based on the credentials to decide
        // whether user has privileges
        boolean isAdmin = queryDbForAdminStatus(user, password);
        if(!isAdmin)
            return login(user, password);
        
        return true;
    }

References
----------

-  The CERT Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java: `SEC02-J. Do not
   base security checks on untrusted
   sources <https://www.securecoding.cert.org/confluence/display/java/SEC02-J.+Do+not+base+security+checks+on+untrusted+sources>`__.
-  Common Weakness Enumeration:
   `CWE-807 <https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/807.html>`__.
-  Common Weakness Enumeration:
   `CWE-290 <https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/290.html>`__.
