User-controlled data used in permissions check
==============================================

::

    ID: java/tainted-permissions-check
    Kind: path-problem
    Severity: error
    Precision: high
    Tags: security external/cwe/cwe-807 external/cwe/cwe-290

`Click to see the query in the CodeQL
repository <https://github.com/github/codeql/tree/main/java/ql/src/Security/CWE/CWE-807/TaintedPermissionsCheck.ql>`__

Using user-controlled data in a permissions check may allow a user to
gain unauthorized access to protected functionality or data.

Recommendation
--------------

When checking whether a user is authorized for a particular activity, do
not use data that is controlled by that user in the permissions check.
If necessary, always validate the input, ideally against a fixed list of
expected values.

Similarly, do not decide which permission to check for based on user
data. In particular, avoid using computation to decide which permissions
to check for. Use fixed permissions for particular actions, rather than
generating the permission to check for.

Example
-------

This example, using the Apache Shiro security framework, shows two ways
to specify the permissions to check. The first way uses a string,
``whatDoTheyWantToDo``, to specify the permissions to check. However,
this string is built from user input. This can allow an attacker to
force a check against a permission that they know they have, rather than
the permission that should be checked. For example, while trying to
access the account details of another user, the attacker could force the
system to check whether they had permissions to access their *own*
account details, which is incorrect, and would allow them to perform the
action. The second, more secure way uses a fixed check that does not
depend on data that is controlled by the user.

.. code:: java

    public static void main(String[] args) {
        String whatDoTheyWantToDo = args[0];
        Subject subject = SecurityUtils.getSubject();

        // BAD: permissions decision made using tainted data
        if(subject.isPermitted("domain:sublevel:" + whatDoTheyWantToDo))
            doIt();

        // GOOD: use fixed checks
        if(subject.isPermitted("domain:sublevel:whatTheMethodDoes"))
            doIt();
    }

References
----------

-  The CERT Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java: `SEC02-J. Do not
   base security checks on untrusted
   sources <https://www.securecoding.cert.org/confluence/display/java/SEC02-J.+Do+not+base+security+checks+on+untrusted+sources>`__.
-  Common Weakness Enumeration:
   `CWE-807 <https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/807.html>`__.
-  Common Weakness Enumeration:
   `CWE-290 <https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/290.html>`__.
